---
layout: post
title:  "Rust challenge 45/100 - a new day a new challenge "
date:   2022-03-02 22:00:00 +0100
categories: rust
---


#  Table of content
<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" -->

- [What is this :grey_question:](#what-is-this-grey_question)
- [45th Challenge](#45th-challenge)
	- [Challenge](#challenge)
	- [Solution :white_check_mark:](#solution-white_check_mark)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## What is this :grey_question: 

The rules of the game are explained [in my original post](https://maebli.github.io/rust/2021/10/18/100rust.html). 

## 45th Challenge
### Challenge

Recently I discovered code wars. Since then I have done a lot of challenges on that platform. It was ok for me for the moment. 
I don't feel like I have broken the rules of this challenge, but I'm keeping at it doing what ever I'm motivated to do. I'm starting
to reach my limitations and I see I have a gap in algorithms and how they work.  

I feel like my solutions are limited by the fact that I do not know how to use fundamental algorithms. I have two new challenges, a series
of algorithms is the first.

So where to start? I started my search by looking for some good cheat sheets on algorithms here is what I found: [a good Overview of various algorithms](https://algs4.cs.princeton.edu/cheatsheet/)

Graph theroy has inspired be most. I want to learn it, so from my overview I go on a further search and find (an online presentation of the basics)[https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs97si/06-basic-graph-algorithms.pdf]


*GRAPH* consists of *nodes* and one or bidirectional *vertices*

What do we need as storage?

*nodes* can be stored in arrays

*edges* can be stored in either adjacency matrix or adjacency list. Matrix lists each connection and a 1 if it exists and a 0 if it does not. Matix uses lots of memory *O(n^2)*. Adjacency List uses less space. Each *node* has a list of *nodes* it points to.

Today's challenge: Prepare a storage for a graph using an adjacency list that consists of arrays and an array of Nodes. 

### Solution :white_check_mark:

	{% highlight rust %}
	fn main() {
	    // Implementation of example
	    // on page 10 of https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs97si/06-basic-graph-algorithms.pdf
	    const M: usize = 8;
	    const N: usize = 5;

	    let mut e = [(usize::MAX, usize::MAX); M];
	    let mut le = [usize::MAX; N];

	    let edges: [(usize, usize); 8] = [
	        (0, 1),
	        (1, 2),
	        (0, 2),
	        (0, 4),
	        (3, 2),
	        (2, 1),
	        (3, 1),
	        (1, 4),
	    ];

	    let mut edge_id = 0;

	    for edge in edges {
	        println!("Adding Edge: {} -> {}", edge.0, edge.1);

	        let from = edge.0;
	        let to = edge.1;

	        e[edge_id].0 = to;
	        e[edge_id].1 = le[from];
	        le[from] = edge_id;

	        edge_id += 1;
	    }

	    println!("Edges = {:?}", e);
	    println!("Last Edges = {:?}", le);

	    // iterate over edges starting from 0
	    let mut id = le[0];
	    while e[id].1 != usize::MAX {
	        print!(" 0 -> {}", e[id].0);
	        id = e[id].1;
	    }

    	print!(" 0 -> {}", e[id].0);
	}

	{% endhighlight %}

See [github](https://github.com/maebli/100rustsnippets/tree/master/graph-storage) [link to playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=804a03902fed26a06e59267654c7a316) 

