---
layout: post
title:  "Rust challenge 55/100 - running rust on esp32"
date:   2022-09-19 18:30:00 +0100
categories: rust
---


#  Table of content
<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" -->

- [What is this :grey_question:](#what-is-this-grey_question)
- [55th Challenge](#55th-challenge)
    - [Challenge](#challenge)
    - [Solution :white_check_mark:](#solution-white_check_mark)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## What is this :grey_question: 

The rules of the game are explained [in my original](https://maebli.github.io/rust/2021/10/18/100rust.html). 

## 55th Challenge
### Challenge

Run hello world on an esp32 using rust. 

### Solution :white_check_mark:

We need to add some addtional toolchain pieces that are not in a default cargo installation the following command so that esp32 binaries can be built:

Call `cargo install -f ldproxy espflash espmonitor`

    {% highlight bash %}
    curl -LO https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build/releases/download/v1.63.0.2/install-rust-toolchain.sh
    chmod a+x install-rust-toolchain.sh
    ./install-rust-toolchain.sh
    {% endhighlight %}


At the end, I missed it on my first install, the script tells you to add two lines to your `.bashrc` (or whatever shell you are using). This is important! It will not work otherwise.


Lets start from a template:

    {% highlight bash %}
    cargo generate \
    --git https://github.com/ivmarkov/rust-esp32-std-demo \
    --name esp
    {% endhighlight %}

The template, looks like this, when running `tree -L 3`

    {% highlight bash %}
    ├── Cargo.toml
    ├── LICENSE-APACHE
    ├── LICENSE-MIT
    ├── README.md
    ├── build.rs
    ├── partitions.csv
    ├── qemu.sh
    ├── sdkconfig.defaults
    ├── sdkconfig.defaults.esp32
    ├── sdkconfig.defaults.esp32s2
    ├── src
    │   └── main.rs
    └── ulp
        └── rust-esp32-ulp-blink
    {% endhighlight %}

Next lets  go into the dir `cd esp` and run `rustup override set esp` so that we just use esp stuff inside this directory. Output will be

    info: override toolchain for '../100-rust-snippets/esp' set to 'esp'


Next add wifi pass and ssid using env. variables again, or the compiler will hit you with the following error

       |
    100 | const SSID: &str = env!("RUST_ESP32_STD_DEMO_WIFI_SSID");
        |                    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
        |
        = note: this error originates in the macro `env` (in Nightly builds, run with -Z macro-backtrace for more info)

    error: environment variable `RUST_ESP32_STD_DEMO_WIFI_PASS` not defined
       --> src/main.rs:103:20
        |
    103 | const PASS: &str = env!("RUST_ESP32_STD_DEMO_WIFI_PASS");
        |                    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



Next try to build with `cargo build --release` and it should work.


There are a number of runners as usual. I had success running `espflash target/xtensa-esp32-espidf/debug/rust-esp32-std-demo` and selecting the right usb port. Warning:  I had to hold down the reset button and release to succesfully flash, to get the thing running.  Do this when the expflash app is trying to connect. Output should be as follows:


    {% highlight bash %}
    $ espflash target/xtensa-esp32-espidf/debug/rust-esp32-std-demo
    Detected 2 serial ports. Ports which match a known common dev board are highlighted.

    Serial port: /dev/cu.usbserial-0001
    Connecting...

    Unable to connect, retrying with extra delay...
    Unable to connect, retrying with default delay...
    Unable to connect, retrying with extra delay...

    Chip type:         ESP32 (revision 1)
    Crystal frequency: 40MHz
    Flash size:        4MB
    Features:          WiFi, BT, Dual Core, 240MHz, VRef calibration in efuse, Coding Scheme None
    MAC address:       24:6f:28:7c:e9:20
    App/part. size:    1606624/4128768 bytes, 38.91%
    [00:00:01] ########################################      16/16      segment 0x1000                                                                                                                                                                                                    [00:00:00] ########################################       1/1       segment 0x8000                                                                                                                                                                                                    [00:01:36] ########################################     936/936     segment 0x10000                                                                                                                                                                                                   
    Flashing has completed!
    {% endhighlight %}



Thats pretty much it, run `èspflash serial-monitor`, hold reset button if needed and you should get something like the following:

    Hello from Rust!
    More complex print ["foo", "bar"]
    Result: 0, 1


 See the repo on [github](https://github.com/maebli/100rustsnippets/tree/master/pi-pico-helloworld)
