---
layout: post
title:  "Rust challenge 5/100 - Sentence Counter"
date:   2021-10-22 21:00:00 +0100
categories: rust
redirect_from:
  - /rust/2021/10/22/100rust-5
---


#  Table of content
<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" -->

- [What is this?](#what-is-this)
- [5th Challenge](#5th-challenge)
	- [Challenge](#challenge)
	- [Solution](#solution)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## What is this?

The rules of the game are explained [in my original post](https://maebli.github.io/rust/2021/10/18/100rust.html).

## 5th Challenge
### Challenge

Today I want something simple. Count the number of valid English sentences in a string. 

A sentence, for the sake of this challenge, is defined as follows: 

* a String starting with an Uppercase letter **and**
* ending in a question, exclamation or period


### Solution

OK this was very easy



	{% highlight rust %}
	fn main() {
	    let alice_in_wonderland =
	        reqwest::blocking::get("https://www.gutenberg.org/files/11/11-0.txt");

	    println!(" sentence count for alice in wonderland:{}",
	             count_sentences(&alice_in_wonderland.unwrap().text().unwrap()));
	}

	fn count_sentences(text:&String) -> u32 {
	    let mut sentence_count = 0;
	    for c in text.chars(){
	        match c {
	            '!' | '?'|'.'=> sentence_count+=1,
	            _ => ()
	        }
	    }
	    sentence_count
	}

	#[test]
	fn test_count_sentences(){
	    // source : https://www.gutenberg.org/files/11/11-0.txt
	    let txt = String::from("Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by
	    her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she
	    had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
	    conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice
	    “without pictures or conversations?”

	    So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
	    hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
	    making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
	    picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
	    close by her.

	    There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
	    so _very_ much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, “Oh
	    dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” (when she thought it over afterwards,
	    it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the
	    time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually _took a
	    watch out of its waistcoat-pocket_, and looked at it, and then hurried
	    on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
	    had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a
	    watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
	    field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a
	    large rabbit-hole under the hedge.");

	    assert_eq!(count_sentences(&txt),6)
	}
	{% endhighlight %}

Find the source on [github](https://github.com/maebli/100rustsnippets/tree/master/sentence-counter) and see it on [rust playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&edition=2018&gist=ae3457d32ba375e90d5c2b09983d81d9). Note it seems to be not working on playground, not sure why as it works locally. 

